Introduction


1. This document, together with the document Basel III: International framework for
liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring, presents the Basel Committee’s1
reforms to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more
resilient banking sector. The objective of the reforms is to improve the banking sector’s ability
to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, whatever the source, thus
reducing the risk of spillover from the financial sector to the real economy. This document
sets out the rules text and timelines to implement the Basel III framework.
2. The Committee’s comprehensive reform package addresses the lessons of the
financial crisis. Through its reform package, the Committee also aims to improve risk
management and governance as well as strengthen banks’ transparency and disclosures.2
Moreover, the reform package includes the Committee’s efforts to strengthen the resolution
of systemically significant cross-border banks.3
3. A strong and resilient banking system is the foundation for sustainable economic
growth, as banks are at the centre of the credit intermediation process between savers and
investors. Moreover, banks provide critical services to consumers, small and medium-sized
enterprises, large corporate firms and governments who rely on them to conduct their daily
business, both at a domestic and international level.
4. One of the main reasons the economic and financial crisis, which began in 2007,
became so severe was that the banking sectors of many countries had built up excessive on-
and off-balance sheet leverage. This was accompanied by a gradual erosion of the level and
quality of the capital base. At the same time, many banks were holding insufficient liquidity
buffers. The banking system therefore was not able to absorb the resulting systemic trading
and credit losses nor could it cope with the reintermediation of large off-balance sheet
exposures that had built up in the shadow banking system. The crisis was further amplified
by a procyclical deleveraging process and by the interconnectedness of systemic institutions
through an array of complex transactions. During the most severe episode of the crisis, the
market lost confidence in the solvency and liquidity of many banking institutions. The
weaknesses in the banking sector were rapidly transmitted to the rest of the financial system
and the real economy, resulting in a massive contraction of liquidity and credit availability.
Ultimately the public sector had to step in with unprecedented injections of liquidity, capital
support and guarantees, exposing taxpayers to large losses.